CHAPTER I
ADAM SALTON ARRIVES
Adam Salton sauntered into the Empire Club, Sydney, and found awaiting him a 
letter from his grand-uncle. He had first heard from the old gentleman less than a year 
before, when Richard Salton had claimed kinship, stating that he had been unable to 
write earlier, as he had found it very difficult to trace his grand-nephew’s address. 
Adam was delighted and replied cordially; he had often heard his father speak of the 
older branch of the family with whom his people had long lost touch. Some interesting 
correspondence had ensued. Adam eagerly opened the letter which had only just 
arrived, and conveyed a cordial invitation to stop with his grand-uncle at Lesser Hill, 
for as long a time as he could spare.
“Indeed,” Richard Salton went on, “I am in hopes that you will make your 
permanent home here. You see, my dear boy, you and I are all that remain of our race, 
and it is but fitting that you should succeed me when the time comes. In this year of 
grace, 1860, I am close on eighty years of age, and though we have been a long-lived 
race, the span of life cannot be prolonged beyond reasonable bounds. I am prepared to 
like you, and to make your home with me as happy as you could wish. So do come at 
once on receipt of this, and find the welcome I am waiting to give you. I send, in case 
such may make matters easy for you, a banker’s draft for £200. Come soon, so that we 
may both of us enjoy many happy days together. If you are able to give me the pleasure 
of seeing you, send me as soon as you can a letter telling me when to expect you. Then 
when you arrive at Plymouth or Southampton or whatever port you are bound for, 
wait on board, and I will meet you at the earliest hour possible.”
* * * * *
Old Mr. Salton was delighted when Adam’s reply arrived and sent a groom hotfoot to his crony, Sir Nathaniel de Salis, to inform him that his grand-nephew was due 
at Southampton on the twelfth of June.
Mr. Salton gave instructions to have ready a carriage early on the important day, 
to start for Stafford, where he would catch the 11.40 a.m. train. He would stay that 
night with his grand-nephew, either on the ship, which would be a new experience for THE LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM
him, or, if his guest should prefer it, at a hotel. 